hey how's it going dave2d here so i was
able to get a microsoft surface duo
into the studio this isn't a retail unit
it's not like a fully functioning one
that you purchased in september
it's an engineering sample that has some
limitations but i wanted to do a
discussion
on the kind of hardware on it like the
physical hardware not the actual
internal components but the the feel and
the vibe that i'm getting from this
device
so i've had this for a few days and i
saturn it for a little bit before i made
this video because
this is a novel device i've used other
foldables before but this
is a completely different type of form
factor and a different
it's just a completely different type of
machine so uh
yeah i'm gonna get into that but before
i talk about this thing i kind of want
to talk about the other kinds of
foldables now in my opinion there are
three main kinds
of foldable devices i mean that's up for
debate obviously you know you can
probably
categorize these things differently but
the first type of foldable to me is
something like this the galaxy
fold this is the first generation and i
would peg the huawei
mate x into the same kind of category
obviously those flip
differently like the actuate in a
reverse manner but the idea is the same
in the sense that when it's
open it's a large screen almost
tablet-like experience but then folds up
to something that's
a little more manageable not super small
but a more compact device that you can
put into your pocket but the idea being
when it's open it's a big screen right
okay that's type one in my opinion
type 2 is a smaller device so when it's
fully open
this is the z-flip or z-flip in
non-canadian language the z-flip is a
device from samsung that when it's open
looks
like a regular phone i guess but it
folds up to something that is more
compact in this case it's a square
device but the usage between these two
devices despite having
very similar screen technologies like
they both
flip open and they both have screens
that actually fold on the inside
the screens are so different that you
can see where the usage would differ
right
this is going to be way better for media
consumption you're just getting a really
large screen experience
and this is just like a regular phone
that is becoming more compact
when you fold it up now there is
technically another type like
on twitter people are talking about this
but this is the velvet from lg
so this device it's got a screen that's
like an optional accessory right
it's technically a foldable because it
does fold and there's two screens
but i don't really consider this in the
same kind of category because this
is an optional accessory you can tell
from the hardware and the software
that it's more of like a bonus right
plenty of people are gonna be purchasing
the velvet without ever having a
secondary screen attached to it
and the software shows which is why i
personally wouldn't consider it to be a
truly
you know foldable device in my opinion
okay
now let's get back to this guy service
duo
this is a device that was designed with
right it was designed with that function
in mind it's designed to open up it's
designed to
fold and close and be a true
foldy boy this is meant to be exactly
that now the first thing i noticed when
i got this thing
in i thought that this thing would be
made out of metal i thought just like
all the other surface devices that this
was some kind of magnesium clad device
it's actually glass it looks cool i just
thought it was magnesium so if you're
like me and you've seen a lot of surface
devices
expecting this thing to be a magnesium
alloy device
it's actually a glass one a very nice
looking one but it's glass
it's probably a good thing though like
if this thing was made of magnesium i
feel like the scratches on it would get
really bad after a few years but like
any other kind of
glass-backed or glass-based phone i
think this will age
relatively nicely now the other thing i
noticed
is it's super thin not the whole device
like the whole device is kind of like a
regular thickness
but each individual slab is
super thin i looked it up it's 4.8
millimeters when you hold it in your
hand
especially when it's unfolded it is
weird i have not held
an electronic device that was this thin
in a really long time it feels like a
really small booklet
and i gotta be honest i like how it
holds i like how it fits in a hand and
it's just
the ergonomics on this thing are really
nice now the other thing i noticed is
that it's a very
wide device and i think under normal
circumstances
it doesn't feel too wide like when i
first got it i gotta be honest i was
like whoa
this is wider right this is wider than
any phone i've ever used before
but then once you kind of handle it a
bit it's like it makes sense
the only time i feel like it might be a
bit of an inconvenience is when you're
making calls like to make a call you
have to flip it
so the screens are both on the outsides
and then you hold it up to your head
and now you're holding a device that is
really wide
for a phone right depends on your usage
if you're on the phone
all the time every day you're probably
not going to want to use this
but just putting it out there i think
for phone use it's going to feel a
little wider in your hand
than most other phones but otherwise i'd
say that the width is likely going to be
a non-issue so i also want to talk about
build quality now when it comes to build
quality with phones
usually we're talking about slab phones
right phones that are
honestly easy to build well in 2020 even
like 200 or 300
smartphones are built well they usually
have it's not hard to have
good build quality in a smartphone
nowadays
but when it comes to phones like these
where there's moving parts
this is where good build quality really
shines
and i think this is
it's an engineering marvel i hate to use
that term i feel like an ad at this
point but
it is so much better built than i
thought it could possibly be
considering number one how small these
hinges are but two
it's also the range of motion this thing
has full 360 degree flip and it's
super smooth like there's no clicks
there's no clocks
there's not even like a a portion of the
rotation that's like faster or slower
than the rest it's this
ultra consistent movement that's just
really good build quality the hinge
tension feels just right
and it feels balanced like the left
screen and the right screen
feel perfectly balanced i can't weigh
them individually but
i feel like they designed this thing in
a manner so that you wouldn't
ever feel like this thing had any kind
of imbalance
when you're opening and closing the
device there's one camera and only one
camera it's kind of like a front-facing
camera used for video conferencing
but if you want to you can just flip the
screen to the back
and then now you have a you can use like
the touchscreen controls to shoot it as
a regular camera right
just because of the functionality of
these two screens there's also a
fingerprint sensor on the side
it's just right below the power button
and i noticed the
sim card tray doesn't have a rubber
gasket like i popped it out
there's no kind of even basic water
resistance
so i feel like you know if if you're
someone that goes for dives with their
phone
this probably won't be great for that
now i want to talk about the main
feature of this phone
the the screen or the screens so this is
8.1 inches spanned across with each
individual panel being 5.6 inches
but the first thing you'll notice right
away is that there's a gap
a very noticeable gap when you have this
device opened up wide
now here's my take on this on the gap
the situation with the gap
under very certain circumstances having
the screen split like this
can be advantageous you'll understand in
a minute but
for the vast majority of usage and the
vast majority of users
this is just it's it can range from a
minor inconvenience which you can just
kind of ignore
to being something that's just downright
unpleasant the first thing is that
if you're purchasing this with the
intent of media consumption you're going
to watch stuff on a single
5.6 inch panel you'd have to be some
kind of psychopath to want
a line right down the middle of your
content it's just it's not a good look
and this is without even seeing the
device do this right this particular
device can't i can't load stuff onto
this screen
but you can just tell looking at that
gap but what i think it's
really good for this is going to be in
my opinion the first device out there
that's going to be
really good at doing lots of stuff on
your phone at the same time
all the examples that microsoft has had
in their commercials and their press
material
they're showcasing this thing going
through some incredible workflows and it
looks so appealing to me like one of the
things that i've never loved about
foldable phones is that they never
really brought anything that
i wanted to do with my phone and this is
just from personal experience
and i feel like this kind of goes beyond
me like if you look at
even tech youtubers people that have
access to this stuff
not a lot of people are using foldables
as their main device because it's
it's cool the tech is awesome but right
now in 2020
it doesn't bring enough to the table to
kind of go through the
the negatives of carrying something
that's larger and has
like some compromises when you go with
these devices but because
this thing has the separated screen
and this is the advantage i was talking
about earlier it allows you to
it allows developers to make apps that
are
designed in a more tuned manner than
something like this
because apps that are built with the
surface duo in mind have to take in
consideration
that gap and when you do you just have
proper usage
of this real estate like these panels
are wide right you can fit so much stuff
on these screens
if you do it properly you get an
experience that you just cannot get
with these regular foldable phones but
that being said
i don't think this is the end stage
right i don't think that microsoft
wants to have a seam or a gap right down
the middle but because of the
limitations of tech
if they want to keep a device thin like
this you have to have two separate
panels otherwise
if you're bending screens and folding
screens you need to make them thick to
house that mechanism that actually rolls
the screen on the inside but the thing
is
when the technology does come where they
can actually have a
seamless or gapless experience the
software
the stuff that i was talking about
before where you can actually move stuff
around and take advantage of a screen
like this
that still works really nicely with
those newly updated screens so
i think this is cool i think this is a
great direction for microsoft to be
taking
i think that this will likely be the
phone that i switched to
it's super expensive and it's not even
available in canada i have to go order
this thing from the states and get it
imported here
but this is one of the first phones this
year that's really moved me and thought
and made me think this is something i
would actually want to use like this
looks like something that i think a lot
of people could make proper use of
but that is the microsoft surface duo
it's like an early look at it
and i guess when i get my real unit in
i'll be doing a proper review in it but
yeah what do you think
of the three different kinds or four if
you count the lg velvet but of the three
kind of
main kinds of foldables what is the one
that speaks to you most right now like
if these ones were all the exact same
price you could choose whichever one
which one would you actually get imagine
you could just turn your phone into a
folding phone would you want
something giant that falls into
something smaller something that
is regular size that falls into
something more compact would you want
something like the surface duo where
it's
meant to be super thin but provides a
different type
of user experience all right let me know
i'm actually really curious hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs if you
liked it subs if you loved it i'll see
you guys next time